Q1. What is a Database?
A Database is defined as a structured form of data

Q2. Does SQL support programming language features ?
No, it is a command  language

Q3 What is the difference between BETWEEN and IN operators in SQL?

The BETWEEN operator is used to fetch rows based on a range of values.
The IN operator is used to check for values contained in specific sets

Q4What is the difference between CHAR and VARCHAR2 datatype in SQL?
varvhar2 means length is variable
char means length is fixed

Q5 What is the difference between primary key and unique constraints?
Primary key cannot have NULL value, the unique constraints can have NULL values.
There is only one primary key in a table, but there can be multiple unique constrains.

Q6 What is a view in SQL?
Views in SQL are kind of virtual tables.
View can have specific rows from one or more tables

Q7  What do you mean by foreign key?
A FOREIGN KEY is a field (or collection of fields) in one table that refers to the PRIMARY KEY in another table

Q8

INNER JOIN :combining all rows from both the tables where the condition satisfies
LEFT JOIN:   returns all the rows of the table on the left side of the join and matching rows for the table on the right side
RIGHT JOIN: 
FULL JOIN: he result-set will contain all the rows from both the tables. 

Q9 What is an index?
An index is used to speed up searching in the database

Q10 what is Normalization
Normalization is the process of minimizing redundancy and dependency by organizing fields and table of a database.

First Normal Form (1NF):.Remove duplicated This should remove all the duplicate columns from the table.
Second Normal Form (2NF) is !NF and  no non-prime attribute is dependent on any  subset of any candidate key 
Third Normal Form : This should meet all requirements of 2NF. Removing the columns which are not dependent on primary key constraints.
Fourth Normal Form (4NF):
Meeting all the requirements of third normal form and it should not have multi- valued dependencies.

